Solidity Amalgamator (#16)
Brotocol-xyz/xlink-docs: developers/contracts/ethereum/README.md

# Technical Documentation for Smart Contracts on Ethereum

> This document outlines the main functionalities of the XLink Bridge as deployed on the Ethereum blockchain. The core aspects of the bridging operation are implemented in the `BridgeEndpoint` contract, which acts as the main entry and exit point for cross-chain transactions, ensuring that assets are securely locked, transferred, and released. The `BridgeEndpointWithSwap` contract extends `BridgeEndpoint`, incorporating swaps during bridging and ensuring both operations occur in a single transaction. 

Reviewer: Corregí algunas cosas, pero sentite libre de darle otra pasada! (Esto aplica a todas las sugerencias 🙂)

```suggestion
This document outlines the main functionalities of the XLink Bridge as deployed on EVM-compatible blockchains. The core aspects of the bridging operation are implemented in the `BridgeEndpoint` contract, which acts as the main entry and exit point for cross-chain operations, ensuring that assets are securely locked, minted/burned, transferred, and released. The `BridgeEndpointWithSwap` contract extends this functionality by incorporating swaps, allowing bridging and swapping to occur in within a single transaction. 
```

> ## Smart Contracts on Ethereum

Reviewer: Pondría directamente: 
```suggestion
## Contracts
```

{% content-ref url="BridgeEndpoint.md" %} [BridgeEndpoint.md](BridgeEndpoint.md) {% endcontent-ref %}

## Main Features

> The XLink ecosystem offers two main features in its Ethereum implementation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The XLink ecosystem offers two main features in its EVM implementation:
```

> - The **bridging of EVM-like blockchain's assets**: these contracts interact with XLink smart contracts on Stacks to allow the transfer of assets back and forth between EVM-compatible blockchains and Stacks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **bridging of ERC-20 assets**: these contracts interact with XLink's off-chain protocol components to allow the transfer of assets back and forth between EVM-compatible blockchains and Stacks.
```

- The **swapping of tokens in the bridging process** via external liquidity aggregators.

### EVM Chain Bridge

![This is a simplified representation on the EVM Chain Bridge's main goal.](../../../.gitbook/assets/glue-docs/bridge-endpoint.png)

\*To see more information on these contracts see the [auxiliary contracts section](#auxiliary-contracts).</small>

#### Bridge Endpoint

- Contract names: `BridgeEndpoint`, `BridgeEndpointWithSwap`.
- [Complete technical documentation](BridgeEndpoint.md)

This endpoint's main responsibility is serving as the entry and exit point for assets moving along the Cross Chain Bridge. Sometimes, it also involves swapping to other tokens as part of the peg-in process.

### Auxiliary Contracts

These contracts do not include the implementation of any core functionality but they serve as a support for other contracts to facilitate calculations and common storage management.

> - **Bridge Registry**: when a user wants to bridge aBTC from the Stacks chain into an EVM chain, or the other way around, this contract keeps record of the generated orders and their statuses, allowing those who interact with it to consult a bridging operation validity and update the records as well. It also manages token and validator approvals. Its latest version can be found at `BridgeRegistry.sol`.

Reviewer: No veo tan clara la función principal del registry de leer este párrafo. Por qué se usa el ejemplo de aBTC? Es distinto a cómo se manejan otros tokens? Haría más énfasis en la parte de que maneja la autenticación de roles (validadores, relayers) y los tokens aprobados.
